# Entity Resolved Knowledge Graph (ERKG) Demo
### Written by: Dr. Clair J. Sullivan
#### email: clair@clairsullivan.com
#### Last modified: 2024-07-05

## Introduction

This repository provides the code to accompany my blog post titled "When GraphRAG Goes Bad: a Study in Why you Cannot Afford to Ignore Entity Resolution."  It is based off of the [excellent blog post](https://neo4j.com/developer-blog/entity-resolved-knowledge-graphs/) written by Paco Nathan, who provides a great introduction to the problem and tutorial on how to use the powerful entity resolution tool provided by [Senzing](https://senzing.com/).  In this code, we will also using Senzing, but will approach the problem from the point of view of generative AI with the intent of using the data for retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).  

## Software packages used in this demo:

- Senzing
- Neo4j
- LangChain
- PostgreSQL

It is organized as follows:

- `notebooks/`
  - `load_json_data.ipynb`: This notebook shows how to load the SafeGraph, DOL, and PPP Loans data into Neo4j.
  - `load_senzing_data.ipynb`: This notebook shows how to load the entity-resolved results generated by Senzing (in JSON format) into Neo4j.  This should be run AFTER the `load_json_data.ipynb` notebook.

## Running Senzing and associated tools

For this demonstration we will be running a few things from Docker.  First, you will need to have Postgres and Neo4j running from Docker.  This is achieved through the following command in this container:

```
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
```

We will then run Senzing in its own container.  It is highly recommended you check out the [Senzing Docker Quickstart Guide](https://docs.senzing.com/quickstart/quickstart_docker/) for information on how to do that.  I also go through this in some detail in the blog post.


